# tweet-trends
Tweet Trends is a web application that my partner, Thomas McHugh, and I implemented for our unversity's senior software practicum class. It is currently deployed on an Amazon EC2 server and the source code is executed via a Linux Crontab task every 2 hours to archive newly shared Tweets.

Background of the project:
We were tasked with developing an application that can be used to study the #MeToo movement on Twitter by correlating Tweets
containing the hashtag to the geographical locations that they were shared from. Our client for the project was a professor at our school who leads a research team that focuses on topics such as sexual assualt and the LGBTQ+ community.

Tweet Trends works by interfacing with the Twitter Search API which allows the application to query and parse shared Tweet metadata pertaining to some search criteria (which in our case was Tweets containing #MeToo).
Upon receiving the Tweet metadata, the application determines whether the parsed Tweets contain embedded geo-location metadata that pertains to the user's location. If the Tweet aren't geo-tagged, the user's bio-location, which is the data field that Twitter users will sometimes manually enter their location information into, is sent to the Mapbox Forward Geocoding API as a query to attempt to get corresponding coordinates for the bio-location.  

From there, if the Mapbox API is able to return relevant coordinates for the sent information and those coordinates are within the United States or Canada (this was the scope of our research), it is then archived into MySQL where it will be stored until it is later displayed onto a webpage via marker and heat maps which are generated by the Google Maps API. 

As you can upon viewing the project's packages, the application is divided up between two packages: Tweet Trends 10 Day with Mapbox, and Tweet Trends Full Archive with Mapbox. Both packages operate as mentioned above, however, they are built around different endpoints offered by the Twitter API Services.

The Tweet Trends 10 Day with Mapbox package is built upon the Twitter4J library which accesses an endpoint that will return data from the past 10 days only. The advantage of this endpoint is that it is free to interface with and you are not limited to a certain number of requests from it monthly. This is the endpoint that this application uses to archive newly shared Tweet metadata on a daily basis.

The Tweet Trends Full Archive with Mapbox interfaces with the Twitter API by making HTTP requests via Apache's HTTP Client Java library. As the name highlights, this package is built upon a premium endpoint that allows access to every Tweet ever shared on Twitter. The disadvantage of this endpoint is that you are limited to 50 requests per month to this endpoint. Anymore requests to this endpoint must be paid for.
